title: What Happened To All My Time?
date: 11-11-2013

I set a goal this year on Goodreads – 80 books. A tough but very doable goal for me, since I can usually tear through a book and a half a week. I'm a big reader – always have been, and (I hope) I always will be. I'm pretty diverse in my interests – I read a lot of dystopic YA fiction, sure, but also more serious literary, as well as plenty of nonfiction. I was behind the clip I needed to maintain to make my goal, going into October – 49 books out of 80 – but confident in my ability to plow through enough books to make it. After all, there's a lot of YA fiction out there that I can chomp out in a day.

But signing into Goodreads today, I encounter a depressing view. Still 49 out of 80 books. My progress has entirely ground to a halt. I currently have five books out from the library, not an atypical amount for me. But I’ve had them out since before Ada started, and unless I get my butt in gear, almost all of them will be returned unfinished. (Two of them are books that were recommended to read before starting Ada.) I'm really, really dedicated to finishing the one about the golden age of hijacking, which I put on hold over a month ago. I haven't put one update on Goodreads since I've started school, though. (Note: now, ten minutes after writing that sentence, that's technically not true, because I just felt so embarrassed looking at it that I felt the need to write actual reviews of the last two books that I read.)

Part of it is that the mental energy isn't there. I'm going to finish the hijacking book (and it really is quite good, I recommend it) because it's easy. Interesting, gossipy. I've been plowing through John Scalzi's back catalogue too – sci-fi military is fun, easy, instantly gratifying. But the really dense nonfiction, which is always a little bit tough, has become almost impossible. I'm devoting so much of my brain to learning code, writing code, thinking about code. It's incredible how focused I can be on a thing that basically didn't exist in my brain two weeks ago.

My gut reaction is that of loss. I don't have time, I don't have energy, etc, etc. But when I really examine the situation, I think loss isn't accurate. Sure, I'm not reading physical books that much. But my love of reading is closely tied to my love of learning, and I've learned more in the past couple weeks than I have probably the rest of the year combined. (I may be exaggerating, but not much.) So while making time for clearing my head and reading is valuable – I'm planning on hunkering down and finishing out some books tonight – I'm close enough on a couple of 'em to make some more headway in my progress -- as long as I'm keeping my brain engaged, I think I'm doing pretty alright.